Release Note for ocis 4.0.0 (#4865)
owncloud/docs: modules/ROOT/pages/ocis_release_notes.adoc

https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9140[#9140]

[discrete]
=== Fulltext Search: Highlight Matches

Instead of just showing you the files that contain your search terms, it also highlights exactly where those terms are within each document. This will expedite your search for relevant content, saving you from the hassle of manually scanning through lengthy documents. The fulltext search can now be activated by users through selecting the btn:[Search only in content] filter chip located on the search results page. This takes away the need of inputting search syntax. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9294[#9294]

[discrete]
=== Search: Location filter

The Location Filter feature allows you to refine search by specifying the file location. Now, instead of searching throughout your entire storage system, you can specify to search only within your current folder. This allows for a faster, more accurate search result, saving you precious time and effort. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9304[#9304]

[discrete]

> === Search: Tag filter
> 
> With the Tag Filter on the search results page, you can now refine your search results by specific tags. If you've assigned tags to your files and folders for better organization, you can utilize these tags as filters in your searches. This means you can narrow down your search results to only show items that carry a specific tag.
> 
> For example, if you're looking for a particular project file and you remember tagging it as "Project X", you can input "Project X" in the tag filter, and the search results will only display files and folders with that tag. This new feature is particularly useful when dealing with a large number of files, making your search more efficient and manageable. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9044[9044], https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9096[9096]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Search: Tag Filter

With the Tag Filter on the search results page, you can now refine your search results by specific tags. If you've assigned tags to your files and folders for better organization, you can utilize these tags as filters in your searches. This means you can narrow down your search results to only show items that carry a specific tag.

For example, if you're looking for a particular project file and you remember tagging it as "Project X", you can input "Project X" in the tag filter, and the search results will only display files and folders with that tag. This new feature is particularly useful when dealing with a large number of files, making your search more efficient and manageable. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9044[#9044], https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9096[#9096]
```

[discrete]
=== Cloud Importer (extension)

> We are excited to announce our new extension - Cloud Importer, designed to import files from other services. With this functionality, you can now seamlessly import files and folders from other services like OneDrive, Google Drive, ownCloud 10 or Nextcloud directly into Infinite Scale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are excited to announce our new extension: Cloud Importer, designed to import files from other services. With this functionality, you can now seamlessly import files and folders from other services like OneDrive, Google Drive, ownCloud 10 or Nextcloud directly into Infinite Scale.
```

Effortlessly transfer your work documents, shared files, or entire project folders from these popular cloud storage platforms to your account. Whether you're moving a single document or a large batch of files, the Cloud Importer ensures a smooth, fast, and reliable transfer. Note that the Cloud Importer only imports files, not shares or tags. Think of it as uploading a file, but from a cloud service instead of from your local drive.

> The Cloud Importer is disabled by default. To enable this extension, please refer to the xref:{latest-ocis-version}@ocis:ROOT:deployment/container/orchestration/orchestration.adoc#docker-compose-examples[WOPI Docker Compose Deployment] Example: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6702[#6702]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud Importer is disabled by default. To enable this extension, please refer to the xref:{latest-ocis-version}@ocis:ROOT:deployment/container/orchestration/orchestration.adoc#docker-compose-examples[WOPI Docker Compose Deployment] Example. https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6702[#6702]
```

[discrete]
=== Simplified Sharing Links

> The Simplified Sharing Links make sharing files with both internal and external parties easier than ever, while maintaining the highest levels of security and access control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplified sharing links make sharing files with both internal and external parties easier than ever, while maintaining the highest levels of security and access control.
```

> With Simplified Sharing Links, you can generate a single, user-friendly link for any file or folder you want to share. This one link is all you need, whether you're sharing with team members within your organization or with external partners and clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With simplified sharing links, you can generate a single, user-friendly link for any file or folder you want to share. This one link is all you need, whether you're sharing with team members within your organization or with external partners and clients.
```

> The advanced design of Simplified Sharing Links respects the permissions of all recipients, regardless of whether they're internal or external. This means that users will only gain the access levels (eg. view, download, edit) that you authorize. It ensures secure, controlled sharing without compromising on ease of use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The advanced design of simplified sharing links respects the permissions of all recipients, regardless of whether they're internal or external. This means that users will only gain the access levels (e.g. view, download, edit) that you authorize. It ensures secure, controlled sharing without compromising on ease of use.
```

> An added benefit for internal users is the visibility of the file location. If permission is granted, internal users can see where the shared file is stored within the organization's file system. This enables them to navigate directly to the file location, eliminating the need to access the file via the shared link every time. This feature is particularly valuable in promoting efficient collaboration and knowledge sharing within teams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An added benefit for internal users is the visibility of the file location. If permission is granted, internal users can see where the shared file is stored within the organization's file system. This enables them to navigate directly to the file location, eliminating the need to access the file via the shared link every time. This feature is particularly valuable for efficient collaboration and knowledge sharing within teams.
```

> Simplified Sharing Links combines convenience, control, and clarity in one package. Experience a more streamlined and intuitive way to share files both within and outside your organization, while always maintaining control over your files' security and accessibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Simplified sharing links combines convenience, control, and clarity in one package. Experience a more streamlined and intuitive way to share files both within and outside your organization, while always maintaining control over your files' security and accessibility.
```

> Note: If you create a sharing link that tries to grant more permissions than internal people have, the internal sharing permissions will take effect for internal people. In other Words: The link acts as a "pointer" for internal people. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9299[#9299]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: If you create a sharing link that tries to grant more permissions than internal people have, the internal sharing permissions will take effect for internal people. In other words: The link acts as a "pointer" for internal people. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9299[#9299]
```

[discrete]
=== Context Menu on Whitespace

This feature allows you to right-click on any empty space (whitespace) within your file view to access the context menu. This action was previously limited to direct file or folder interaction, but we've expanded its functionality to utilize the whitespace as well, enhancing your control over the workspace. This new context menu provides quick access to commonly used operations. For instance, you can create a new folder directly from the menu, offering an expedited process for organizing your files. In addition, you can easily view details for the current folder, including its contents, shared status, and more, all from the same context menu. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/8921[#8921]

[discrete]
=== View Spaces as List

Previously, viewing your spaces was limited to a tiles format. You can now switch to a list view that presents your projects in a clean, streamlined manner. This new view offers an overview of all your spaces, allowing for easy navigation and a concise visual of your work environment.

> This list view provides additional information like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This list view provides additional information about the space:
```

> This list view provides additional information as name of the:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This list view provides additional information about the space:
```

Reviewer: fixed

* manager

> * ammount of members

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* number of members
```

* total quota
* used quota
* remainig quota
* status
* last modfied date

in a more compact and organized manner. This is particularly useful for users who manage multiple spaces, as it allows for efficient scanning and selection. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9195[#9195]

[discrete]
=== Other Notable Changes

* Bugfix - Fixes ocis postprocessing restart command: Restarts complete postprocessing pipeline if there is no active postprocessing https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6753[#6753]
* Enhancement - Add `ocis decomposedfs check-treesize` maintenance command: Verify the treesize metadata of a Space in decomposedfs: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6556[#6556]
* Enhancement - Add Server-sent events Endpoint for Notifications: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5998[#5998]
* Enhancement - Use reva client selectors to improve performance and scalability: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6452[#6452]

> * Enhancement - Allow disabling wopi chat to disable the inline chat in ONly Office: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6544[#6544]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Enhancement - Allow disabling wopi chat to disable the inline chat in Only Office: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6544[#6544]
```

* Enhancement - Download a whole Space as Archive: https://github.com/owncloud/web/issues/9056[#9056]
* Enhancement - We've implemented a new solution to deal with long breadcrumbs even with long folder names: https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/8984[#8984]
* Enhancement - Respect archiver limits. The archiver service announces a limit for the accumulated filesize of the currently selected resources. The web UI now respects those limits and shows a disabled download button once the limit has been reached. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9055[#9055]
* Enhancement - Privacy statement in account menu. We've added the option to add an imprint and privacy statement via the config:
 https://github.com/owncloud/web/issues/9174[#9174]

> * Enhancement - Allow local storage for auth token. We've introduced a new env var `WEB_OPTION_TOKEN_STORAGE_LOCAL`, when set to true (default), the auth token will be stored in the browser's local storage instead the session storage, this will effect in a persisted login state across multiple browser tabs. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9386[#9386]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Enhancement - Allow local storage for auth token. We've introduced a new env var `WEB_OPTION_TOKEN_STORAGE_LOCAL`, when set to true (default), the auth token will be stored in the browser's local storage instead the session storage, this will enable a persisted login state across multiple browser tabs. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9386[#9386]
```

"this will enable" or "this will allow" are maybe better words to choose from?

Reviewer: fixed, thanks

> * Enhancement - Add login button to top bar. We've added a login button to the top bar, this might be handy if a user receives a public link, and they want to login with their user account. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9178[#9178]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Enhancement - Add login button to top bar. We've added a login button to the top bar, this might be handy if a user receives a public link, and they want to login with their user account: https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9178[#9178]
```

* Enhancement - Add pagination options to admin settings: https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9199[#9199]
* Enhancement - Add batch actions to search result list: https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9200[#9200]

=== Known Issues

This section will be updated if issues are discovered.

=== Migrations

* The space index of the decomposedFS will be migrated from symlinks to messagepack. This is an auto migration. See the xref:{latest-ocis-version}@ocis:ROOT:migration/upgrading-ocis.adoc[Upgrading Infinite Scale] documentation for more and important details.
* If you use a customized theme you need to add 3 new color tokens to the theme.json:
+
* `swatch-passive-hover-outline`
* `swatch-primary-muted-hover`
* `swatch-primary-gradient-hover`
+
{empty}
+

> These colors ensure, that the primary and outlined buttons (eg. "Upload" and "New") have a proper hover state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These colors ensure, that the primary and outlined buttons (e.g. "Upload" and "New") have a proper hover state.
```

=== Context Menu on Whitespace

This feature allows you to right-click on any empty space (whitespace) within your file view to access the context menu. This action was previously limited to direct file or folder interaction, but we've expanded its functionality to utilize the whitespace as well, enhancing your control over the workspace. This new context menu provides quick access to commonly used operations. For instance, you can create a new folder directly from the menu, offering an expedited process for organizing your files. In addition, you can easily view details for the current folder, including its contents, shared status, and more, all from the same context menu. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/8921[#8921]

[discrete]
=== View Spaces as List

Previously, viewing your spaces was limited to a tiles format. You can now switch to a list view that presents your projects in a clean, streamlined manner. This new view offers an overview of all your spaces, allowing for easy navigation and a concise visual of your work environment.

This list view provides additional information about the space:

* name of the manager
* number of members
* total quota
* used quota

> * remainig quota

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* remaining quota
```

* status

> * last modfied date

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* last modified date
```

* Enhancement - Add login button to top bar. We've added a login button to the top bar, this might be handy if a user receives a public link, and they want to login with their user account. https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9178[#9178]
* Enhancement - Add pagination options to admin settings: https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9199[#9199]
* Enhancement - Add batch actions to search result list: https://github.com/owncloud/web/pull/9200[#9200]

=== Known Issues

This section will be updated if issues are discovered.

=== Migrations

* The space index of the decomposedFS will be migrated from symlinks to messagepack. This is an auto migration. See the xref:{latest-ocis-version}@ocis:ROOT:migration/upgrading-ocis.adoc[Upgrading Infinite Scale] documentation for more and important details.
* If you use a customized theme you need to add 3 new color tokens to the theme.json:
+
* `swatch-passive-hover-outline`
* `swatch-primary-muted-hover`
* `swatch-primary-gradient-hover`
+
{empty}
+
These colors ensure, that the primary and outlined buttons (e.g. "Upload" and "New") have a proper hover state.

> * If you used `yes` or `no` in your YAML files, please change these values to `true` or `false`. Background: The YAML parser we use does not suport `yes` or `no` any more.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If you used `yes` or `no` in your YAML files, please change these values to `true` or `false`. Background: The YAML parser we use does not support `yes` or `no` any more.
```
